Propose engineering principles (#13)
gravitational/careers: principles.md

## Product and Engineering Principles

**We believe in being paid for quality work**

> There's an incredible amount of software infrastructure that is under funded and ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's an incredible amount of critical software infrastructure that is under funded and ignored.
```

We believe our software needs to generate revenue to employ the best minds.

> **We balance openness and transparency**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We value openness and transparency**
```

Reviewer 2: My thought on balance was that this is more pragmatic to how the company actually acts, compare to something like the entire product being GPL and opensource not open-core.

Reviewer: OK, but `balance openness and transparency` reads as `balance between openness and transparency`.
These are synonyms, so it was confusing to me :)

We work as much as we can in the open; our commits, designs, and comments are largely in public repositories for anyone to use and observe.

> We strive to find balance in open-core and community friendly software versus competing in a dynamic and evolving market segment.

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence.
Is this trying to say "We build an open-core product focused on our users but also don't ignore our competition"?

Reviewer 2: Not exactly. When I jotted this down I think what I was trying to convey is we're a commercial for profit company that attempts to balance that goal with also producing useful open and useful software for the community, and that this is a spectrum that needs to be balanced.

Reviewer: Gotcha. How about making this more direct, like:
`We balance between being a for-profit company and a group of engineers producing open, free and useful software.`

All our security critical code is developed in the open.
Our independent audits [get published](https://goteleport.com/resources/audits/), even the unflattering ones.

**We want to tackle and solve the hard problems**

We want to minimize the theater in security products, and offer meaningful improvements to security posture.

> We want to focus on the user, having a product that users aren't trying to work around to get their jobs done.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We want to optimize for user experience, and deliver a product that stays out of our users' way so that they can get their jobs done.
```

> We want to end passwords as a vehicle for trust, including passwords in disguise such as tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to end passwords as a vehicle for trust, including passwords in disguise such as API tokens.
```

## Product and Engineering Principles

**We choose simpler designs whenever possible.**

Having less configuration knobs is better for security. Complex products are easier to hack and harder

> to use. Security feature is only good if it make user experience better, otherwise users will find ways to work around it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to use. A security feature is only good if it makes the user experience better, otherwise users will find ways to work around it.
```

That's why we prefer [client certificates](https://goteleport.com/teleport/how-it-works/certificate-based-authentication-ssh-kubernetes/)

> and as way to authenticate and [reduce the number of ports, configuration options and protocols](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/5777).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
as the way to authenticate, and [reduce the number of ports, configuration options and protocols](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/5777).
```

**Security through transparency**

The only way to build secure systems is through peer review and transparency.

> That's why we have [open design process](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/5135/files),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why we have [open design process](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/tree/master/rfd),
```

Author: I wanted to show the actual review process with comments, it was interesting for me to see, I think would be interesting for others too

and [publish security audits](https://blog.doyensec.com/2020/03/02/gravitational-audit.html) even
if reports are critical.

**We are not selling security and customers are not the product**

Our products improve developer efficiency and don't stay in the way. They have to be secure, but security
is not what we sell. Everyone deserves strong security and privacy.

> That's why we built OSS version of Teleport to be as secure as possible. Our software does not spy on our customers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
That's why we built the OSS version of Teleport to be as secure as possible. Our software does not spy on our customers.
```

## Product and Engineering Principles

> **Simpler always wins in the end**

Reviewer 2: In my mind this approach has led to more problems than it has solved, even if it was just miss-applied to justify engineering design weaknesses.

Author: May be a wrong tagline, but do you disagree with the elaboration below?

Reviewer 2: I only agree with the elaboration as it applies to security primitives and threat modelling. For everything else in my view there should be necessary complexity so that the product is understandable and relatable, and what we call simple tends to actually imply hidden complexities which is why I'm generally against the approach of simple as a engineering principle.

Author: @knisbet great points, will try to reword it to match closer to reality. I will try something like "Excess complexity stays in the way of security and adoption".

Reviewer 3: Related I think: there is probably a good engineering corollary to Newton's first rule of scientific reasoning:

> We are to admit no more causes of natural things than such as are both true and sufficient to explain their appearances. To this purpose the philosophers say that Nature does nothing in vain, and more is in vain when less will serve; for Nature is pleased with simplicity, and affects not the pomp of superfluous causes.

science: no more complex but no simpler than the simplest system that explains observed phenomena

engineering: no more complex but no simpler than the simplest system that achieves desired phenomena

We choose simpler designs whenever possible. Having less configuration knobs
is better for security. Complex products are easier to hack and harder

> to use. Security feature is only good, when it's easy to use.

Reviewer 4: Not 100% sure what you're trying to say here but it doesn't read right

```suggestion
to use. Security features are only good when they're easy to use.
```

> That's why we stick to [client certificates](https://goteleport.com/teleport/how-it-works/certificate-based-authentication-ssh-kubernetes/)

Reviewer 2: this isn't actually true is it? IE we don't use client certs for AAP, and gravity was a long term user for tokens for long term access, I don't know if teleport is similar or not.

Author: I can add whenever possible to clarify. Even with AAP the dream is to switch to mTLS, we were constrained by web browsers not supporting client certs in our design.

> and as the only way to authenticate and [reduce the number of ports and protocols](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/5777).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as the only way to authenticate and [reduce the number of ports and protocols](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/5777).
```

**Security through transparency**

> The only way to build secure systems is through peer review and transparency.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The most reliable way to build secure systems is through peer review and transparency.
```

Author: I'd argue that's the only way to build a secure system, not just the most reliable :)

Reviewer 3: I was thinking technically you can build trivial systems that are secure, but that's a rather pedantic point, plus any example I try and come up with stands on the shoulders of a non-trivial system built on peer review.

> That's why we have [open design process](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/5135/files),

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
That's why we have an [open design process](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/pull/5135/files),
```

> and [publish security audits](https://blog.doyensec.com/2020/03/02/gravitational-audit.html) even

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and [publish security audits](https://blog.doyensec.com/2020/03/02/gravitational-audit.html) (even those that are highly critical of us)
```

if the reports are not always shiny.

> **Security and customers are not the product**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Security is paramount and the customer is not the product**
```

Everyone deserves strong security and privacy.

> That is why all security features in Teleport are free and our software does not spy on our customers.

Reviewer: One might argue that SSO is a security feature https://sso.tax/

Author: Sure, that's one way of looking at it and the boundary is blurry. I always viewed SSO and RBAC an organization scalability tool. From the security perspective, strong encryption, strong password and second factor are as secure as you can get.  Lots of vulnerabilities we have observed were actually caused by SAML and provider integration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That's why the free version of Teleport is built to be fully secure and our software does not spy on our customers.
```

Reviewer: Encryption and password+2fa auth don't save you from lingering accounts of former employees still being usable long after those employees left.
It is a social vulnerability rather than a technical one, so you could wiggle out of that argument.

Author: All makes sense, we don't have to declare it as a principle if we don't think it's strictly true or does not reflect the reality. Let me think of some alternatives, and if you have ideas, please let me know
